you
if humans could fly without tools and
machines how fast do you think we would
go as of 2012 the world record for
fastest short distance sprint speed is
roughly 27 miles per hour running speed
depends on how much force is exerted by
the runners legs and according to
Newton's second law of motion force is
the product of mass times acceleration
and Newton's third law states that for
every action there is an equal and
opposite reaction so that means running
requires having a ground to push off
from and the ground pushes back against
the runners foot so flying would
actually be more similar to swimming
Michael Phelps is currently the fastest
human in water and the most decorated
Olympian of all time
guess how fast he swims the answer may
surprise you
his fastest recorded speed is less than
5 miles per hour
a child on the ground can easily outrun
Michael Phelps in water why is that well
let's go back to Newton's third law of
motion when we run we move forward by
pushing against the ground with our feet
and the ground pushes back propelling us
forward the ground is solid by
definition it means the particles are
essentially locked into place and must
push back instead of getting out of the
way but water is liquid and flows easily
when we move our limbs to push back
against the water a part of the water
molecules can just slide past one
another instead of pushing back now
let's think about flying air has a lot
more free space for particles to move
past one another so even more of our
energy would be wasted
we would need to push a lot of air
backwards in order to move forward
astronauts move around in shuttles in
zero-gravity when they're in outer space
by pulling on handles installed on the
ceiling walls and floors of the shuttle
now imagine you were given the ability
to float how would you move around in
the middle of the street but you
wouldn't get very far by swimming in air
would you I don't think so now assuming
you were granted the ability to float
and the speed to move around efficiently
let's discuss the height of your flight
according to the ideal gas law PV NRT
pressure and temperature has a positive
correlation meaning they increase and
decrease together this is because the
air expands in volume with less pressure
so the molecules have more room to
wander around without colliding into
each other and creating heat since the
atmospheric pressure is a lot lower in
high altitudes it would be freezing cold
if you were flying above the clouds
you'd need to wrap yourself up to keep
your core body temperature above 95
degrees Fahrenheit otherwise you'd start
shivering violently gradually becoming
mentally confused and eventually drop
out of the sky due to loss of muscle
control from hypothermia hmm
no the ideal gas law implies that as the
pressure decreases gas volume increases
so if you were to fly straight up too
quickly the inert gas in your body would
rapidly expand the way soda fizzes up
when shaken the phenomenon is called the
bends decompression sickness or divers
disease since deep-sea scuba divers
experience this when they come up too
quickly
this results in pain paralysis or death
depending on how foamy your blood
becomes okay well let's say you want to
fly just a few meters above the ground
where you can still see the road signs
and breathe oxygen with ease you'll
still need goggles and a helmet to
protect you from birds insects as street
signs electrical wires and other flying
humans including flying cops ready to
hand you a ticket if you don't follow
the flying rules buddy now remember if
you have a collision midair that knocks
you unconscious you would experience
freefall until you hit the ground oh
that wouldn't feel good without society
or the laws of physics flying would be a
totally awesome ability to have but even
if we could all just float around a few
feet above the ground and only moving at
a snail's pace and telling you it's tell
me a cool ability that I'd want wouldn't
you yeah I thought so
now which superpower physics lesson will
you explore next shifting body size and
content super speed flight super
strength immortality and invisibility